so lost and weird okay so hi i'm new
here i love dr k
videos on youtube it's something that
has been helping me a lot i'm 23
and i have a feeling of emptiness inside
and a strong need for human warmth
almost like a child i think that that's
creepy but it's how i feel
i have a hard time socializing i hate
the sense that i have to put a mask on
i feel like i'm being false and isolated
from everybody
it's like we all individually live in
our our own small islands and we are
alone forever trapped inside it's weird
i want to be more confident and care
less about what other
people think and be myself but i don't
know how
i just feel alone
okay this is a really great um
post because i think it there's a really
tricky
problem about that we run into when we
like
lack confidence and have trouble making
connections with people so let's just
think
through how this works okay so
this is like the problem with the
chicken and the egg because
when you don't so let's say like on the
inside i'm not confident in myself
so what happens is i put a mask on and
then i go
and like relate to other people with the
mask and then the problem that arises is
because
the people are relating to the mask
i don't necessarily become more
confident in myself
right like what happens is i become
confident
in the people's reaction to the mask so
as a person
what i think so for example i'm all oak
and then like let's just call the mask
dr k
and so what i start to think is oh
people like dr k but what does that do
to my confidence
it actually doesn't increase it at all
in fact it can make me even more
insecure
because what people are responding
positively to is dr k
and is not alok and so the more that
this happens the more we get stuck
so now i know that people like dr k
and i think that they may not like me
because they clearly like dr k what if i
show them the rest of me
like there's no way that showing them
the ugly bits on the inside of my psyche
is gonna get them to like me more than
what they like dr k
as right and so then i get stuck because
like what happens is like
people start to love dr k more and the
more that they love dr k the harder it
is to be all look
because then it's like oh my god like i
i can be this and then people will like
me if i continue to like
be dr k and so what happens is we get
addicted to wearing the mask
because we think other people are
addicted to the mask
and that they won't like us on the
inside and then we get really really
stuck because we know how to put on the
mask we know how to get good reactions
from people
but we get more and more stuck and we
become more and more insecure
and then we wind up feeling empty on the
inside we long for human connection
but we don't want to risk it right it's
an al
all an issue of risk because if i take
off the mask what are people going to
see
how are they going to react what if i
and it hurts
it's fear there's like fear right what
if they don't like me on the inside
and it's tricky because the very
adaptation that we use which is the mask
which is to like you know make make it
easy for us to interact with other
people
becomes our curse so our solution
is the problem the fact that i put on a
mask that i don't behave authentically
with people
because there's so much ugliness on the
inside because i'm so insecure
actually reinforces that insecurity and
that insecurity will never get fixed
so that it's challenging so what what
this person should do and what all
all of you should do if you've gotten
addicted to wearing a mask
and if other people know just the mask
is you've got to show them
what else is there and that's really
really dangerous because then they could
reject you
rejecting the mask is oddly enough like
kind of okay because it's not really who
you are
right it's just a mask so it requires a
lot of courage
and it's tricky because like how are you
gonna know
how are you gonna form that connection
with someone they can't form the
connection with a mask
you have to take the mask off but then
you have to be vulnerable and if you're
vulnerable then they can hurt you
and this is where the insecurity the
lack of confidence comes in so it's
really really tricky
but you got to take the mask off right
and you can do it in small steps i'm not
saying like
you know bear your soul to everyone
i'm just saying like do it in little
steps you can say like
hey you know if someone asks you how are
you doing
you can try i know it sounds crazy you
can try saying
not great and then they'll be like
you know so you what you're doing is
you're like it's it's a game of like
ping pong or tennis
where you're like hitting a ball across
the other side and you're gonna see what
they do with it
some of them are gonna peace out they're
gonna drop the racket and walk away from
the court right which is totally fine
and then that hurts a little bit
but some of them will hit it back oh
what's not what's
what's not right in your life what's
what's going wrong what's going wrong
and then you can choose to share a
little bit you can say oh i had a
terrible game of valorant
where i was gonna win but then we ended
up feeding
and then there was just one dude left on
the enemy team and he wiped us all
okay you could say that or you could say
i feel kind of like i feel kind of
lonely
like i feel alone and then
you hit that across you know that's a
that's like a fastball like you're like
and then you'll see what they do with it
right
and so this is where you know part of
the reason that like we have this
coaching program is because we got to
teach people how to be vulnerable
we want to create a space where you can
start to swim in those waters
and like learn to express vulnerability
and then sure they're your coach so
they're supposed to accept you
which they're actually not trained to do
we train our coaches to be authentic
not polite and not nice it's actually
something that we try to get out of them
like because i think like authentic
responses are important
right so like if if you screw up or you
say something
bad your coach isn't gonna like forgive
you for it they'll like hold you
accountable
and they'll tell you how they feel
listening to it but they're gonna be
there
they're gonna be there anyway they'll
share their reaction they'll be like
okay this is how i feel about what you
just said
what are we gonna do about that and so
the tricky thing here is that the more
you wear a mask
the more it keeps you from connecting to
people and then taking the mask off
involves opening yourself up being
vulnerable
and then you can get hurt but ultimately
that's what you have to do
and so if we go back to what this person
is saying
right i have a hard time socializing i
hate the sense that i have to put a mask
on
and i feel like i'm being false and
isolated from everyone exactly
like we're all individually live in our
own islands and we're
alone forever trapped inside so build a
bridge
to someone else's island and this is
where like you can also if you guys are
concerned about how do i build a bridge
i don't want to be vulnerable
you pay attention to other people
because other people will be hitting
things across your court
when someone says you know how are you
doing today if they don't say fantastic
they say things are going okay
then you say oh so it sounds like some
stuff is going well and some stuff isn't
do you want to talk about either one and
then they say yeah like so
on the upside i got a promotion on the
downside i just got dumped
and then that's where you can say like
oh yeah i've been dumped before too in
fact
i got dumped two years ago and i still
haven't gotten over it
you know and like then you guys are like
hitting the ball back and forth
you're sharing a little bit there
sharing a little bit
and then hopefully you start to feel
more connected with people and as you
feel more connected with people like you
can't develop that confidence unless
you test their reaction to what's on the
inside
and we see this a lot too sometimes with
like provocative stuff
right sometimes people will be
provocative and they'll be like oh
you know like if someone's provocative
they're like yeah no one likes me and
they'll say that out loud
they're like provoking you to engage
with them in some way
so it's tricky tricky
right so so like type 2b says i've never
been in a relationship to get dumped
so you toss that out there
and that's where we say like yeah man or
woman
like what's that like
and so other people are saying like you
see what's happening so i want you guys
to pay attention to chat because it's
happening here
so i've never been in a relationship and
then someone else is saying i'm so fat
and and like other people are like
opening up a little bit see like if you
guys are reading chat
this is where like people are making you
know people are like putting themselves
out there
right so you can add someone else in the
chat so
someone else is like i'm the opposite of
fat so
now this is now we're talking about fat
gang
i'm ugly i'm this i'm that so now this
is where we
as a community we come together and i'm
gonna ask you guys the question
what's it like to have a body that
you're unhappy with
right so like what's sad about it
what's not great about it
so one person says it's very restrictive
what's restrictive about having a body
that you're unhappy with
what's anxiety inducing about it
i can't feel free what keeps you from
feeling free
what does your body restrict you from
doing
thanks for the host by the way tell do
you get treated differently it feels
harder to be accepted
so now we get somewhere there's social
limitations
right who is putting those limitations
on you when you say it feels harder to
be accepted
is that a feeling or a truth
people judge you for it right how do you
get judged what's it like to be judged
all right so so this is hard right so
this is where now people are saying like
it's mostly myself i don't feel
comfortable around others but let's be
honest
they judge you too right so if you're
when i was thinking about like
being restricted like summer is coming
up some people may go to the beach and
you may not feel comfortable going to
the beach because you have to wear less
clothing and like you may feel judged
like it certainly sounds restrictive
me judging you judging me
right and this is tough and so then like
what are we going to do with that
about that as a group right so this is a
problem that a lot of people
like have right one person is even
saying i occasionally have suicidal
ideation
right i can get that like feeling so
ashamed in yourself that like you don't
even want this body anymore like screw
this body like
the body is screwing you it's not
letting you live your life
so you're gonna be like screw it i can
understand that
and now what's happening so i know it
sounds weird but like you're talking to
someone on the internet
but like hopefully if you pay attention
to yourself
maybe you feel a little bit less alone
even with no like direct interaction
with another human being right so we
have this weird
dr k interacting with twitch chat
and so it's kind of like but like this
is good because
you guys have taken a very safe step
forward and being vulnerable
which is like being vulnerable to people
in twitch chat
and like they can't see you they can't
judge you but you can hear them and like
we all share an experience
that's what we're about and so this is
where like
this is why we kind of have our group
coaching model because there's always
this problem
if you work with a therapist or a coach
which is that like your therapist is
paid to accept you they're paid to do it
right so if you like go to a therapist
and you say like oh i'm a disgusting
you know i'm like my body is hideous the
therapist is like hey no it's not
you're beautiful on the inside i think
you're a wonderful person
and then there's some part of you that's
like
well you're paid to say that
and so this is what i really like i
think the most important thing about
group coaching is like
it's not about us right it's like about
you guys
winning your each other's respect
because sure your coach is paid to like
you
i mean that's not actually what they're
paid for but that's how it feels
right that's how it feels and so
when you guys share this stuff with each
other like this is what the connection
for the community is about
this is what like this is why this
person posts on reddit
and let's just go and take a look at
this real quick
right what are people saying in the
comments
so like even this is enough
like i can relate don't have answers for
you but you aren't alone at being alone
like that
right and then like thank you
and then this person's like did i write
this i was thinking basically the exact
same thought
especially about the island thing
perception is reality and therefore we
all live in our own world
alone i personally think i think it
comes from
an intrinsic lack of self-worth great so
someone's been doing some
self-reflection
if i don't have the worth i have to be
someone else to be valued by others
so i never show my true self so this
person's been perfect
basically exactly what i said and so we
could both be wrong but at least we'll
be wrong together
and if i never show my true self then
none of the connections i've ever made
are real ironically reading this
feels makes me feel less alone
i hope we figure this out this is like
this is basically what we this is group
coaching happening on reddit
right and then like this person's great
too why do you have to put a mask on
and so this is what the aoe healing is
about like we
so the problem is that you know
here's the problem is that we all feel
like islands but we're all one connected
landmass we're like a continent it's
like pangaea up in here
and then like everyone's like oh i'm on
my own island
and why are you on your own island
because everyone's wearing a damn mask
and no one talks about like what they're
feeling
so when one person goes out there and is
like oh
i feel alone and i feel like i'm on an
island and they're all like hey we're
all on islands too no you guys are on
the same loneliness island
it turns out that it's actually pangaea
and how did this interaction happen
it's because one person went out there
so i i do uh i'm trying to think about
this but
i was hold on let me just think about
let me think about privacy concerns for
a second so so
i i work with some people and we like
came up with this analogy right so some
of these people are gamers
and i don't know if you guys are
familiar with like the idea
of like in in mobas you know how you
have like tier one towers tier two
towers tier three towers
tier four towers and like the the base
or fountain or whatever
and so like the right thing to do is
when someone dives the fountain like
what do you do
like you dive with them so in a group
setting when someone expresses
vulnerability they're out there they're
taking that like
they've dove way deep into enemy lines
and there's like no support
and they're wiping and so what do you do
you charge
right in there out with them and sure
like you throw the game
if you're playing a moba but like when
it comes to connecting with other human
beings like that's what you've got to do
you
feed together exactly if we're gonna
throw the game we're gonna like fountain
dive together
don't alt f4 and report them that's the
problem is like that's what we normally
do that's what we expect to do
but you've got to dive with them when
your teammates are diving like you dive
with them
have you guys i don't know if you guys
have seen og fountain dive people in pro
games
but like that doesn't work if only one
of them is fountain diving like the
reason that it works is because
they all found dive together and then
you crush the enemy spirit
and that's what we're gonna have to do
when one person is vulnerable you have
to
you know you gotta meet him meet him
meet him there don't let him do it alone
you